I'll start by creating a simple array here at the top, 1, 2, 3 and then I'll just log out the length
and
it shouldn't be surprising that if I hit run, we see three as explained a few seconds ago,
3 is the length here since we have three elements.
I access an element by using square brackets after the variable,
so after array in this case and then specifying the index I want to access, for example 1 to access
the second element.
If I now hit run, you see three as length and then 2 which is the second element accessed through index 1
since the index starts at 0.
I'll print out the complete array here
but before doing this, I want to try something.
What happens if I access my array and I access the index one,
so this element here and I set this equal to 100?
What do you think will happen if I hit run? You get a new array, 1,
100 and 3,
so we just replaced the second element with 100 which of course is possible.
You can not only access elements to print them out,
you can also replace them like this.
What happens if I replace the element with the index 3, with 100?
Remember we only have three items in this array,
therefore the highest index available is two.
What do you think will show up in a console
if I click run? 1, 2, 3 and then 100 because I entered a new value like this.
Remember earlier in the course when I tried to access values in the array which weren't there, we didn't get
an error, we got undefined.
So you can kind of think of an array as an infinite collection where all unoccupied places I simply
undefined and therefore if I access the element with the index three, I'm just replacing one undefined
space with an actual value.
Now of course Javascript is a bit more efficient than polluting your memory with infinite arrays but
you can think of this to understand how accessing arrays work.
Therefore if I replace three with five,
so I try to replace the element with an index of 5 with 100,
you'll notice that the elements between three and the new element aren't touched.
So what do you think we'll now print?
1, 2, 3 undefined, undefined, 100,
so I'm just leaving out these two elements here and I replace the sixth element in my array.
And again, this is because you can think of this array as being filled up with undefined spaces
and I'm just replacing the space with the index 6 and I'm not touching the spaces with index 4 or 5
.
excuse me, 3 or 4,
I'm replacing index 5.
So this is how you can work with arrays and replace or access
their elements.